Okay, so great work guys.
That we know now know Express.
We have covered a lot
of things in Node js.
We know how to install
external dependencies.
We know how to use
We know that how we can use
a so called npm, so called node js.
We know how to use HTTP module
and how to build servers.
Now I would like to take
a moment and explain you
something very interesting going
on in this file, okay?
In this particular file
that is our package or JSON file.
Do you see that we have this version
thing here that is like 1.0.0.
And do you see this dependencies
here that we have three
dependencies right now, 1, 2 and 3.
And there is this weird
looking numbers.
These, these numbers are here right
in this particular video.
Let's understand
what these numbers mean.
Like what is this symbol
here, why it is five, why
it is three digits only.
So let's understand that
how versioning happens
in case of node js.
Okay, so node js, or I should say npm
follows something known as semantic
versioning or also known as Sembur.
Okay, Semantic versioning.
So there are some rules of
semantic versioning that how you
give these versions, like why my
version is 1.0.0, why this
express is versioned as 4.2,
1.1, what does this 4 mean, what
does this T2.1 mean and what
this one means?
That is what we have to understand.
Okay?
Now semantic versioning
has three parts, okay?
So let's say you have some number
here, then you have a point.
Okay?
So just once again, I don't
want you to add a point.
Then there is some point.
Then let's say you again have some X,
then you have some point
and then you again have a number.
So semantic versioning is
built using three numbers.
First number, second, second number,
third number, also known as bits.
Okay, so these are
also known as bits.
The first bit always and always
tells you that this is the,
this is the major version.
Okay?
So this refers to as
the major version.
So this is your major version, okay?
And second one is known
as the minor version.
So this second bit is
represented minor.
And this is known as
the patch version.
So these are the three things that
these bits are representing.
So if I copy this line that is
your express js this particular
thing as of now, just forget
this, this carrot symbol.
So this says that, hey,
for in case of express
at the recording of this video,
the major version is four, right?
The minor version that we have is 21.
And the patch version right
now that we have is function.
So this is what this particular
thing interprets you.
Okay, so this part is understood that
how this versioning is done
and not only node, even languages,
like Rust, okay, so they have cargo.
They also use some word.
So this is a very common thing
to follow in case of versioning.
Now let me explain you that
how these bits are actually.
What, what is the meaning
of these bits?
Like what is this patch?
What is this miner?
What is this major.
Okay guys, let's say you are
building an application.
You are building some tool, okay?
Some tool for developers.
Now what you have done is this
tool you have built and you have
published it to the developers.
And today around 100k devs
are using your product.
Are using your product.
Right?
Right.
Do you think that if you make
some change in your code,
these hundred devs which are like
working with your code,
they can have some crashes?
It might be right.
Let's say I have, I have written
this express application, right?
And today express application
says, hey, what you have to do is
you have to say app, dot get
and like this and like this.
So this will work.
What if tomorrow some update comes
and this get function is removed?
The get function is removed
from the application.
So what will happen?
My application will crash if I try
to update my application, There
is no get application, right?
There is no get function in
the express in the future version.
So, so my, this particular
blog, this particular block,
everything will start to crash.
My server will start to crash,
which is not a good thing, right?
Because this is a breaking thing.
So how this versioning helps
this particular conflicting.
Okay, so there are three scenarios.
Okay, there are three scenarios.
First, let's say the update
was very simple.
Let's say some minor bug fix.
Okay, There was some minor,
minor, bug fix.
Okay, Very, very simple
bug fix was there.
So some bug fix is there, but which
is not important.
Okay, which is kind of not important.
So it's kind of an optional thing.
So that, hey, there was
a small bug, which we have
fixed, but it's optional.
I mean it's good if you update.
It's fine if you don't even update.
But yeah, there was a simple
fix that I have done.
When you do this kind
of a change, which is a very simple,
minor, optional change,
in that case you should always
increment your patch version.
So if right now you are on 4.21.1,
let's say if Express js
application is adding some optional,
okay, some optional update,
in that case, what should do?
It should update this one
to two okay, so that means
guys, you are safe to add.
You are safe to update this.
Okay.
There is no new feature when
this bit is updating, right?
When this particular bit is
getting updated, it tells the
developer that it's a minor fix,
there might be some kind of
small update, but there is no
new feature, there is nothing
going to break.
So the things that are working
on 4.2, 1.1 will continue
to work on this.
Will continue to work on this, will
also continue to work on this.
There is nothing breaking there.
Your code will never get break.
But yeah, there is something.
So this is where you basically
update your patch version.
So you get it.
What is a patch version?
So let me just give you
definition as well.
So patch.
Okay, so the official definition
for the patch version.
Oh, it's too big.
Let me just expand.
Not expand it like this.
I won't expand it like this.
Yeah.
So what does the patch says
incremented for the backward
compatible bug fixes?
So backward compatible is
the important word here, that
everything is backward compatible.
Nothing is going to break
these updates address issue
without adding new functionality
or breaking anything.
So that means if the patch
version is increasing,
there is no new functionality, there
is no breaking change.
Some bug fixes are there.
For instance 1, 2.3 to 1.2.4
signals a bug fix that doesn't
affect the compatibility.
So this is what is meant
by your patch version.
Patch is the right most bit.
That means this bit.
Okay, this one.
So you are now done
with the patch one.
Now let's see what is the minor one.
Okay, minor.
So in case of minor, what happens?
It basically means that there
is a new, new functionality.
Okay, so so you have added, so
I should say added a new feature.
Okay, but, but back.
But the old features
will continue to work.
Okay, but old will also work.
So old will also work.
So that means It's
a not breaking key.
So it will not break anything.
So first thing is that there
is a new feature, okay?
There is a new feature
and nothing will break.
Nothing will break.
That means nothing is removed, right?
So this is where if you have
an update of this kind, this
is where you update your, you
update your minor version.
Okay?
So if the minor version
is getting updated.
So as a developer I know there is
some new functionality which I
can see in the documentation, but my
code will continue to work.
So that means in this particular
scenario the last bit,
let's say one, so it can be like
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27.
So let's say if right now this
is the version, so what?
And let's say this was
incrementing like this.
Now what team will do, they
added a new functionality.
They will set it to 22 and they
will move it back to 0.
That means now you are on 4.22.0.
Then if there is a bug fix
in version 22, they will
continue to update this.
Then what they will do is,
oh, there is a new functionality
that we have to add.
So they will there 23
and move it back to zero.
Now any bug fixes in this,
will be done like this.
Oh, there is a new feature.
Let's make it 24.
And then we will continue to do a bug
fix in this particular version.
So this is the minor version
and this updates when there
is a new functionality.
Okay, so let me give you
the definition for this as
well so that you can read
and understand it better.
So minor version incremented when
functionality is added, right?
The functionality is added.
So here this is the important
line and is backward compatible.
And even the functionality
is added, the previous
functionality will never break.
This means the existing code
should continue to work, but new
features are available.
For example, 1.2.0 to 1.3.0
suggests that there is a new
feature are introduced without
breaking the compatibility.
So that means, yeah, you are, you are
okay to update this one also, right?
But just in case you need
that feature, it will also
increase the packet size.
So yeah, you have to, you have to
keep that in mind because of course
new features are coming in now.
Let's see the major one.
Okay, major.
Major is the breaking change.
That means, you know, we
have revamped everything.
We have rewritten everything, we
have removed a lot of things,
we have added a lot of things.
We have changed the WHO architecture.
So this is a breaking change.
Okay, that is where you
update your major version.
So major version you cannot update
in your code just like that.
If you have to update your
major version, you have
to do a lot of code changes.
Your code will start to break.
So you have to do a lot
of coding changes.
And it is not easier
to update a, existing code base
to a major change.
Okay, so major change is basically
like, hey, There is a 5.0.0,
there is a 5 point, there
is a 6.0.0, there is A 7.0.0.
So this is a major change.
The, the leftmost bit.
Okay, so let me give
you the definition
for the major as well.
So what does this
major bit look like?
Okay, so major says incremented
when there are incompatible
API changes, okay?
That means you are removing
some functionality, you are
adding some functionality.
That is where you
say breaking change.
So these changes may break existing
functionality or require
modifications in the dependent code.
For example, 1.0.0 to 2.0.0
indicates that there is
a significant change that may
require users to update the code.
So yeah, this, this is
the breaking change.
So this is how
the versioning is happening.
Now you understand
the semantic versioning.
December.
Now piyush, this is fine.
What is this carrot symbol
going on here, right?
What is this carrot symbol?
What is the symbol going on here?
Now these are very simple actually.
So there are multiple ways
to write this thing.
Okay, Number one, if I just
write it like this, this
tells the express that whenever I do
npm install, whenever I do npm
install, always and always
install express at this version.
Correct?
This is what this is telling.
But guys, let's say, you know,
I just want that every time
there is a bug fix, you, you know
what is a bug fix, right?
Every time there is a minor
change, there is a patch
change, there's a bug fix.
I don't want to keep a track because
in reality you will have like
thousands, not thousands, actually,
I should say 50 dependencies.
Let's say you have
total 50 dependencies.
Of course you don't want to keep
a track going on their website that
they have fixed something on.
Like you want that at least?
I want that this last bit,
which is the patch one should
automatically update, right?
You want that, right?
So for this, what you can do is
you can just add a tilde symbol.
So when you add this symbol,
tilde, this basically says that,
hey, even if you're specifying 1,
if in future the version 2 is
available, I will install 2.
If in future the version 3 is
available, I will install that.
So that means if you copy this
line and I just paste it here.
So this tilde basically says that
till in case of, Till it says from,
okay, version 4.21.1 all the way.
All the way to like 4.21x.
That means x can be anything.
It will basically update it.
Okay, so till they will
freeze these two bits.
So these two bits are frozen
in case of tilde, the last
bit will keep on updating.
If there is any update
from the author,
then you do a carrot symbol.
That is this.
Sorry, where is the caret symbol?
It's on the six.
When you do this carrot symbol,
the caret symbol means that
do not update the major version.
Never ever update the Major version.
Feel free to tweak these two bits.
Okay, so when you say this one,
let me just copy this version.
This is the carrot symbol.
Carrot symbol basically says
that from 4.21.1 all the way
to less than 5.5.0.0.
Okay, so this 5 is not included.
So you have to include this.
So that means all the versions.
So this bit is also there.
This bit is also there.
Only the four will be static.
That means only
the first bit is frozen.
So this anything that is less than.
Okay, less than five point.
This is not included.
I'll make it red.
So you can.
Sorry, not the whole thing.
So this particular
part is red in color.
So 5 will not be updated.
All the features like 4.2.1,
4.21 4.25 to 4.30,
4 point something, something.
All the Minor and patch versions
of 4 will be updated, but major
version will never be changed.
Okay, Major version
will always remain 4.
Because updating the major version
automatically is a very risky thing.
Because it will.
It will break that.
Is that what it means?
Right?
So this is how your
carrot symbol says.
So this carrot symbol says, hey, keep
on updating these two bits.
Do not touch the four.
This says, hey, keep
on updating these two fields.
Do not touch 22.
This carrot means, hey, keep
on updating these 2,
but do not touch it.
And do you know from
where it fetches it?
Whenever you do, like npm install,
the package name,
it basically goes to a website that
is npmjs.com official website.
Okay, so this is where all
the packages are hosted.
So if I go on to Express, right?
So this is the documentation
for Express, like on the npm.
So you can install it
using npm install Express.
So when you do npm install Express,
this is where the code lives.
Can you see?
This is where the Express code lives.
This is from where the actual code
is pulled from the Internet.
And you can see that there
are 31 dependencies
that this express requires these 31
packages to be installed.
And these are dev dependencies.
And how many people are
dependent upon express
that are, 8, 6, 7, 4, 1.
So express internally
requires these dependencies.
And these all packages are
dependent upon Express.
I mean, that's a huge number.
And these are all the versions.
So you can see that 4.2.1
is the latest version.
So that is why we have 4.2.1.
And then there is a next
version that is 5.0.1.
Now why this is 5?
Why this is 5?
Because there might be
some breaking changes.
So you can see that this is how
the version history is going, right?
There is a lot of things
going on 10 years ago.
And do you know when
does this started?
The 5, the 5 Alpha and even if
I go down 5 Alpha and, and,
and here is also 5 it started
developing eight years ago.
I mean 9 is also there.
Yeah, it started developing
nine years ago.
So which is finally, I
think it will be out there.
So how to update to 5?
If you go to Express and you click
here, you can see they are saying
hey, express 5 documentation is
available and if I click on the
API documentation, so there is
something known as guide moving to
Express 5.
So this means this will
guide you that what all
things we have removed.
So app.delete app.param app.
Request param request JSON JSON p
these all things are removed
and these all things are changed.
For example app Router has changed,
request body has changed.
So these are few things
that have changed.
So you have to follow this guide
and you know you have to update
your existing code just in case.
Just in case you are doing it.
Okay, so yeah, so you have
to read all this.
That what all things are going
to break in Express TS5.
So but we are not going
to use any feature that is going
to break in Express 4 or 5.
So yeah, that's fine.
Okay, so you can read this
guide and that's how this
versioning basically works.
So feel free to revisit this video.
Feel free to have a screenshot.
Okay so guys, what you can do is
you can have a screenshot
of this thing and keep on reading it
so that you know what how SEMWER
or semantic versioning works.